---
layout: post
title: Introduction
---

## Why Read Us?

Machine learning is on people's mind if not on people's
lips. The idea that software can be made to program 
itself by ingesting data is very attractive. Yet there
is still a divide between theory and practice. The 
industry is calling out for a practical guide that 
bridges the gap, especially in creating a learning
infrastructure for many common use cases and patterns 
in practice. 

We want to be that reference. Hence the *practical*
in "Practical Machine Learning". 

More than that, the industry needs a kiosk that can 
best tailor to the demands
of the reader; be it to dig deeper for the 
mathematical innards or to find optimizations. A book
will never do that. Since you can interact with
a website, reference gists, clone repos, and bookmark
your progress, we are more than a static content. We
can't claim all the credit for that. Most of it goes
to the good folks at facebook for
[react.js](https://facebook.github.io/react), which
all of the demos here are built on.

Yet another selling point: we are terse
but rich in samples and demos. The main text reads with
an assumption of complete familiarity with the maths.
However, whenever you need a boost in understanding, you can 
open the annotated texts which contains the proofs and
intuition behind the thrift writing. 

As such, the chief purpose of this text is to show how it's done.
However, that seems hardly enough, and we seek to empower the 
reader to turn research papers into architectures fully equipped with ETL chain, monitor/alerting,
tracing, logging, diagnostics, verification, and testing. All
you need to bring is the learning.

## Audience

One can never write for every reader. Those who would best
benefit from this text is a principle architect in data
science/machine learning, untroubled by statistics and
multivariate optimizations. It is meant to be read from
the perspective of someone with a small team of engineers
and mathematicians collaborating closely to craft a 
pipeline. The main text tends to have an engineering bias.

## Resources


## Setting Up For Machine Learning


## Notations


## Road-Maps For Learning

